# food-waste-app

This repository contains the sources code for the mobile app that was developed as a part of my master's thesis in the Erasmus Mundus SE4GD program, which aimed to support consumers in reducing household food waste by integrating smart barcodes into the mobile application. The folder structure is explained as follows:

 - `api`: Contains backend code for the API developed using JavaScript and Node.js to communicate between the mobile app and the databases.
 - `mobile app`: The mobile app was implemented using MIT App Inventor. This folder contains the AIA and APK files (FoodWasteApp.aia and FoodWasteApp.apk) generated by the MIT App Inventor. The FoodWasteApp.aia file can be imported to the MIT App Inventor to view the visual code blocks. Also, the images of the visual code blocks of the AIA file are attached under the MIT_AI2_Code_Blocks folder. The FoodWasteApp.apk file can be installed on an Android device to run the app. To run the app, you need to install a separate QR code scanning app to scan QR codes using our app, which can be found at [https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.teacapps.barcodescanner].
 - `food_list_database`: This folder contains the exported database of 'food list' as a JSON, which was created as a cloud database using Firebase to store the food information of scanned food items.
 - `products_database`: This folder contains the exported database (in JSON format) of food products that were used to generate QR codes for the demonstration purposes of the app. This database was created using MongoDB.
 - `product_QR_codes`: Contains the QR codes that were generated to store food information of several food products. Those QR codes were used as smart barcodes for the demonstration purposes of the food products and users can scan them using our mobile app to obtain food information of the products.
